# Neuralink_Sentiment_Analysis

Elon Musk's initiative to produce brain chip technology has surely grabbed the public's attention. Just how amazing Tesla and SpaceX are currently shaping the automotive and space exploration industry; here Elon Musk initiates another project called Neuralink in 2016. 

Neuralink is developing a technology to implant wireless brain-computer interfaces in the most complex human organ to help cure neurological conditions like Alzheimer's, dementia, and spinal cord injuries and ultimately fuse humankind with artificial intelligence. 

Musk on a webcast mentioned that it can solve problems like memory loss, hearing loss, depression, and insomnia; "An implantable device can actually solve these problems". The trials have been done on pigs, but it is possible that the trials may begin by the beginning of 2021. I find this initiative quite interesting, therefore, decided to see the public's sentiment towards Neuralink using Twitter API. 

For this project, I mainly used Tweepy, TextBlob, and WordCloud to portray the results. In order to fetch tweets, I created a Twitter developer account then created an app, which gave me access to consumer key, consumer secret, access token, and access secret. It is important to have all those keys to fetch tweets from Twitter. 
Once I authenticated the keys, I fetched 1500 tweets using the keyword 'Neuralink'. Transformed the list of tweets into DataFrame in order to clean and process it for determining the subjectivity and polarity of the tweets. 

Once the text is clean, I generated a WordCloud of the tweets and here we can see that Neuralink is the biggest of all, which shows that the tweets are mainly related to Neuralink. WordCloud is a good way to have a quick glimpse of the overall public sentiment and for Neuralink, so far I can not find a negative pattern. We can find words like happy, help, and need; the same time we can find words like 'Animal Watch', but they do not necessarily determine negativity. 

Next, I found the distribution of sentiments into positive, negative, and neutral and plotted them on a scatter plot. When polarity equals 0, it's neutral, when it is > 0 it's positive, and vice versa. The Scatter plot shows a good distribution of sentiments and here we can see that the majority of the sentiment is moderately positive, few extremely positive. many fall in the neutral and the rest in moderately negative and some extremely negative. This totally makes sense because many people like to see positive initiatives in society through technology and may potentially be future clients. We also find many neutral tweets, they do not seem to be Neuralink's potential clients, but they slightly appreciate what Neuralink is doing or have close to no sentiment. 

Next, I visualized the count of each sentiment on a bar chart to show the distribution. It seems like the overall public sentiment is positive; while negative may remain negative, it is highly possible that neutral sentiment may move to positive overtime as Neuralink makes progress in their vision. While working on this project, the max number of tweets I could find related to Neurlink was 1534. With time, as we have more tweets, the model will show more precise sentiments. This model can be further improved through the bag of words and Term Frequency - Inverse Document Frequency (TF-IDF).  
